From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist and
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number two 50
recorded live Thursday, January 20th, 2011. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by Telerik rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of proponents
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks about technical
presenting, withdrew Robbins. Believe it
or not. This is Scott
Hanselman and my voice is
broken. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. How's it
going everybody we are at
at webcams in Amsterdam, the
Netherlands I'm here with drew
Robins. How are you, sir?
I'm doing all right. We're
both a little tired. Yeah.
I've been talking for eight
hours straight and my voice
basically fell apart about an
hour and a half ago.
Yeah. Well, I tried to
help you out with talking
as much as possible, but
it became apparent that people
showed up. They hear you.
I was, I was mentioned
as the sidekick several times
on Twitter. I, not me.
I didn't say that, but
like, and I had someone
was great and the other
guy that's right. Yeah. We,
we just came off of
like, literally let me see.
We got up at six
this morning and I got
up at 4:00 AM the previous
day traveling of course, all
this way. And then we
put together a webcams, James
senior's webcams. We are in,
I were going to do
a Belgium and a couple
of days. And we ended
up working. We were basically
onstage talking from 9:00 AM till
five 30 and we did
all the new stuff. So
NBC three new getting all
that that's right. And when
we weren't on stage talking,
you had a surrounding of
people that you were answering
questions too, so you didn't
get any breaks. Really? Yeah,
it was, it was pretty
funny. And we had a
lot of diet Coke and
was, it was, it was
exhausting. I was mentioning to
the guy who was very
kind enough to drive us
back here to the hotel.
He's like, you know, what's
it like, how do you
feel? Are you excited? And
it's just like I told
him, I said, I don't
think that people fully realize
the, the complete fullness that
you have to throw into
something like that. I mean,
you give your all, yeah.
Any amount of energy that
you have to sustain throughout
the day. Right. Continue to
present, just drains the heck
out of you. I mean
that I could, you know,
we could phone it in,
we could just sit and
do the demos and have
no at all, but we,
we both want it to
be good. Right. Yeah. And
it's, it's bizarre. I haven't
done a full eight hours
at that, at that energy
level. All Right. Like trainers
do that all the time
that work, you know, every
day and do eight hours
a day training people. And
that's just, I can't imagine
doing that. You know, I
used to do training, like
know, and your class at
ASP, like 10 years ago.
And I, I almost interviewed
at development, but, but I
just couldn't conceive of that
energy output because some of
the, you know, some of
the people just don't think
of it as being a
lot of work, a lot
of energy, but you know,
I I've always, some people
don't like my talks. They
don't like my style, but
I, I think of it
as edutainment. So it's like
a Vegas show with code
and debugging in and zooming
tools. Yeah. That kind of
becomes your unique thing. Cause
you have that, that kind
of stand up side of
you as well. So you
can intermix the like there's
some people and I may
be one of those that
try to intermix humor into
presentations and it just doesn't
come off and people are
just like, you know what,
just give me the information
and we'll be fine, but
I definitely have a good
knack for introducing the humor
intelligence. I think I do.
But I was funny who
there was a, if you
look at the comments on
the, on the asp.net MVC
talk, I did last year
in Belgium, there were a
bunch of comments on the
channel nine site that were
like, can I get a
version with the jokes edited
out? Actually, I remember that.
Yeah. I thought that was
really bad. I was like
really sad. It was a
decent doc though. It was
good. It was okay. I
mean, some of the it's
like some people think I'm
doing the jokes because I'm
starving standup comedian, her failed
a failed stand up. But
it's more just that I
put on a talk that
I would want to see
and I just cannot sit
through an hour long talk
without fun. I love listening
to stories with, to talks
with their stories like Mark
Russinovich and Raphael of Waikiki
and these guys that just,
they tell a story. And
then the code is kind
of the side effect of
that stuff. I love that.
Yep. It's a softer side
of the whole thing. So
you mentioned a few there.
What are some other speakers
that you really enjoy listening
to? I'm Billy Hollis. Billy's
great. Billy is like the
Southern Baptist preacher center. And
this is, I love, I
love speakers that have war
stories. They're not just going
through the demos like rich
Richard Campbell is always got something
where he'll just stop and
tell you a story about
what, and it might be
a story of something that
happened last week, but then
he'll tie it back to
whatever, right? The COVID that
he's talking, Richard's a great
storyteller as well. Yeah. But
this was actually our first
time speaking together. You and
I, Yeah, it was an
interesting experience for me. We
had kind of practiced And
talked about how we pass
back and forth and then
we effectively just throw it
out the window. Right. As
soon as we got to
say, did that bother you?
I mean, did you feel
like, okay, I guess we're
doing it this way. I
had never, I usually am
always kind of the, just
the solo act. And so
I had never done demos
under the pressure of interruptions
and distractions. And it was
a, it was pretty interesting
trying to keep my mind
on what I was supposed
to do. And then the
technical steps that the demo
versus the talking back and
forth. Yeah, you were my
code monkey for a number
of demos, but this wasn't
in the classic code monkey,
since this was in the
Chris sells Don box, Doug
Purdy style of code monkey,
which means you have to
be insulted by the presenter.
You have to be witty
with your replies. I will
tell you to sleep writing
code. Exactly. So, and it
worked at times and not
at others. Yeah. So I
was wondering if like, people
would know if we were
playing silly or not, you
know, but I hope they
did. We'll see when we
look at the videotape later,
but w it's fun, you
know, you tease people when
they're writing code about their
use of hotkeys or they,
you know, moving the mouse
too slow. Yeah. So that
was fun. So I know
that you may not think
this, but there's a lot
of people out there that
really respect Scott Hanselman as
the speaker. And one to
know, you know, how do
I become a better speaker?
How do I become like
Scott Hanselman and be a
great presenter? So give people
out there, some, some advice
of, you know, I, I'm
pretty sure just knowing you
and knowing your background, there
was no kind of classic
speaker training for Scott Hanselman,
but how do you get
started as a speaker? Well,
I mean, I always talk
about the, they do a
lot of theater in high
school. So in some ways
that was kind of classical
training for being on stage.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, for
that classical classical, in that
high school theater kind of
way classical in that it
was musical theater. We first
you have to want to
be on there, want to
be on stage. And for
me it's about getting the
energy, which is really ironic
because I am extremely innervated
right now. Right. The opposite
of energized, I have zero
energy, which is funny because
the audience was feeding me
energy all day and I
absorbed it and I was
amped and stoked and excited.
And then at the end,
I just collapse. And I
go, I come back on
these trips and my wife
looks at me. He's like,
why do you do this?
And I was like, it's
for the high, like, you're
so low though, right now,
what have you done? You
have to want to feed
on that, on that. But
this is what teachers do.
You, you focus on a
couple of people in the
room, even though we were,
I think we had 300
people show up 360 or
something like that. I picked
like five or six and
I kept looking at them.
Typically, you want to pick
somebody in each section of
room that you're going to
look at. And ironically, if
you mix it up enough,
people around that person will
think you're looking at them.
Right. So you'll literally will
get a feeling that every,
almost everyone in the room
thinks that you've connected with
them. And so I usually
just pick, you know, unique
looking people, whoever the most
interesting looking person, right? There's
the people that are also
kind of connecting with you
and nodding and giving you
kind of positive feedback to
keep you going. Exactly. And
they're usually awake if they're,
if they're the person who's
awake, I don't look at
the sleeping people. So you
didn't look at me today.
Or like there was this
one guy, there was this
one I wouldn't look at
you cause you were asleep.
Most of the time, there
was one guy who, when
we asked, are there any
Ruby people here? He said,
I'm the Ruby guy. So
I started calling him Ruby
guy because whenever I would
refer to something that was
of Ruby rails, I would
say, yeah, you know, Ruby
guy likes that. So he
was the guy in the
left section, but I would
keep looking at, you know,
at each section I could
describe the person and what
I associated with that person.
Like I had a classic
ASP guy in the back.
I had a VB guy
on the right. I had
the dotnet 2.0 guy in
the middle, you know, and
I just would use those,
those locations as spatial references.
So that way I was
consistent, I would always move
to one side of the
stage talking about one topic
point, always moved to the
other or gesture in a
certain way. That was something
actually that Billy Hollis told
me was associate different parts
of the stage with different
things. He was really good
at this. He would like
make the left side of
the stage, the client and
the right side of the
server. And he was really
consistent, even though he didn't
call it out by him
moving his body. That, that
side, when he was talking
about different topics, it reinforced
what he was talking about.
So he, he would say
like, let me step out
of the box for a
second. And let me go
over here and talk about
the client. And then you
do that. And, and he
would move always to the
same location. Right? And then
visually it would help you
build the, the picture of
whatever was the process that
was going on was, yeah,
You see some speakers at
times, they're moving around the
stage, but it's accidental and
it looks very random and
it's more, it looks more
nervous. Even if they aren't
nervous, it looks nervous. The
more intentional you can be
a meaningful about movement, the
better like definitely standing still
is probably better than random
movement, but having intentional movements
is even better. So Really
intentional, anything you don't want
to do anything on stage
when 300 people or 3000
people are staring at you
without knowing why you're doing
it. And if you have
an affectation, which we all
do myself included, they're going
to all notice that. But
to your point about intentional
movement, I learned that doing
speaker training, actually I did
do some speaker training. If
you move there, we'll look
at you. If you stop
moving, they'll look at your
slides. If you turn slightly
in return your side to
them, they will look at
the slides. If you turn
your body square and face
them, they will look at
you. So you can actually
control what they're looking at.
So you can like turn
to the side and narrate,
and then the end and
you look up to the
slides and they will look
up to the slides. So
being aware of that kind
of stuff makes it, it
makes a huge difference if
your intent is to control
the flow of information. Yep.
So what are the other
factors in, you know, maybe
somebody is out and speaking
to user groups or at
these code camps and other
regional community events. And they
want to kind of break
into larger events, whether it
be the, the vs lives
or dev connections or some
of the events that you
do here in Europe, that
you've talked about the dev
days. And I'm trying to
think of some of the
others, but the larger events
with a bigger audience, how
do they, how do they
break out of the regional
events and get into that?
What other factors are involved
In the new, in the
new world, in the new
internet, record your events. If
you're going to talk to
somebody, whether it's 10 people
at a user group or
a hundred people at a
code camp record yourself, it's
really difficult because there's really
only like, you know, three
ways that I can hear
about you as a speaker
word of mouth, or someone
sent me some list of
reviews, like actual rolled up
data that said you did
a good job or video.
There's no other way for
me to hear about how
you did at an event.
Send me videos of me
video. If someone is saying,
I want to come speak,
you know, I've spoken here,
I've spoken there. That's great.
But now what am I
going to do? I'm going
to go and ask somebody
if I know someone at
the conference, Hey, how did,
how did drew do? Did
he speak well on, honestly,
I want to see a
YouTube video and not, not
a cheesy gorilla. One where
someone is wandering around falling
you, but like decent audio,
audio, audio, audio, setting up
a tripod and a little
Bluetooth audio at a, at
a user group for a
while there I was taping
everything I did not just
because I wanted to promote
what I was doing, but
I wanted to look at
it and get better. Sure.
So I would go and
bring the video camera and
record it. It's not. And
then you can take the
best ones and post them
out there. Yeah, absolutely. If
you gotta gotta to record
yourself because you never know
when a video is going
to turn out to be,
you know, the video, a
good one. And actually, Paul,
I think it was Paul Mooney
taught me this when he
started me doing this, because
one time he came to
a conference that I talked
to winter elect, I was
at a winter elect conference
and Paul brought a video
camera, totally guerrilla style and
recorded my talk on social
media for developers. And I
was like, okay, Paul, that's
cool. Thank you. You know,
but it's very grilling. He
just sat there and he
followed me and I didn't
really feel that quality was
very good, but he was
so nice to have done
it. He threw it up
on the web and I
threw it up on my
blog. And even though it
was awful quality, it has
still to this day, one
of my most popular videos.
Wow. And Paul does this
all the time. He's always
recording videos. So then I
said, I'm going to start
doing this more formally. I'm
going to take responsibility and
I'll, I'll ask the conference.
Would you please record this?
Or I'll take a flip
camera and throw it on
a tripod. Cause you know,
you might give 10 presentations
before. One of them is
awesome. But when you get
the awesome one, it proves
that you can do it.
It proves yourself, you can
do it. And then you
can go back and you
can say, look, you see
how that worked and that
didn't yep. Ask yourself exactly.
Like what did I do
right when I do wrong
and what do I need
to do more of and
less of Absolutely videotaping yourself
is hard, but I'm watching
it and it's harder. Oh
God, I can't listen to
myself. I don't know how
you guys can stand me.
I'm the same way I
can not hear myself speak.
Well, I certainly can't hear
myself speak when I sound
like this. Yeah. I'm just
totally destroyed right now. Right.
Right. Yeah. So what do
you do? Like when you,
You have, I mean, every
time I've seen you present,
it's great, but I'm sure
you have ones that are,
you're less than happy with
different presentations. What do you
do to recover from those?
And not only like, kind
of afterwards to say, well,
that was, you know, not
the best and I'll do
better next time. But do
you have techniques for recovering
during a session? Cause there's
times that you just know
it's going bad, you just
feel, Yeah. Yeah. The, the
bad ones hurt, you know,
they hurt because you're just
kicking yourself. It's usually stupid
things that I get. Cause
a bad thing, like not
sleeping enough, always nails me.
You know, it's really difficult
to go to bed at
3:00 AM and then wake up
and give a great talk
at night. So like here,
even though I'm totally shattered,
I thought it went okay
because both of us were
very conscious about our jet
lag situation. And when we
went to sleep and I
got a full eight hours
before we talked, that was
great things that didn't go
well today were as a
result of prepping on some
things and you know, over
prepping in some instances and
under prepping and others. So
the talks that I've given
that have gone poorly are
kind of follow a couple
of classes of things that
can go wrong. First is
hardware, nothing, you know, nothing
you can do about that,
but have backups. So first
I would run, I would
carry multiple laptops. So for
the longest time I carried
two laptops that started to
hurt. Now I carry one
laptop and then two hard
drives. So I have another
entire hard drive. Cause it's
the hard drive. That's the
most like nine times out
of 10, the hard rival
die. I actually had one
situation where the LCD panel
died, but I could just
plug it into an external
monitor. And I was okay,
but I have an ex,
I actually have two hard
drives with me today. I
have an internal that I
can literally swap out. It's
a complete image and boot
up and I'll be right
back where I was. So
literally we could have crashed.
I would have replaced it
during lunch and we'd be
back up and no one
would have bothered. And then
I have an external hard
drive where I, the worst
case scenario would be. I
would go buy a hard
drive and then maybe restore
a ghost image from that.
Hi, this is Scott coming
to you from another place
in time. Are you using
agile practices to manage your
software development? There's lots of
tools in the market that
manage the steps of a
project, but most of them
focus on individual roles. Get
ready for a solution that
caters for the success of
the whole team. Guys at
Tellerik introduced team pulse. It's
an agile project management tool.
That'll help you gather ideas,
estimate plan, track progress in
a common workspace. Finally companies,
regardless of their size can
use a lightweight and convenient
tool that makes all the
stakeholders work as a United
team. Even if they're in
different countries by combining intuitive
user interface and the power
server light team poles removes
the roadblocks that you typically
face and applying agile in
an effective manner, no more
lost data, no disparate systems,
no lack of critical analytics
regarding the health and philosophy
project. See if yourself get
a free copy for five
users in one project at
tellerik.com/team pulse. And please do
thank Tellerik for supporting Hansel
minutes on their Facebook fan
page, facebook.com/t L E R
I K Tellerik. We do
appreciate it. There wouldn't be
a Hansel minutes if there
wasn't teller helping us. So
hardware, backups, backups, backups, and
then I have all the
presentations, everything. Every single thing
that we talked about is
in Dropbox. So let's say
my computer's dead hard drives
are dead. My backup is
dead. I get somebody else's
machine and a fast internet
connection, and I can bring
it down in Dropbox in
about 20 minutes, assuming they
have like visual studio and
the basics. Sure. So that's
one thing to being prepared
for hardware. Failure is important.
Being prepared for software failure
is hard. And the only
thing that I've found that
I'm interested in, how you
do it is practice, practice,
practice, the more stuff that
goes wrong when you practice.
It means that you'll have
seen that already when it
does go wrong live. Right.
You know what I mean?
There was a thing today
where we had a really
long hang and it looked
really bad. Well, it turned
and I was like, everyone
was like, Oh no, you
know, this is some horrible
thing is happening to the
demo. And they've, they've made
a mistake and they've screwed
up and look, internet Explorer
has hung. I, you know,
visual studios hung it's it
sucks. Well, it was actually
that it was referring to
a SQL server name that
was hard coded in a
web config file and it
didn't exist. And I knew
that because when I, when
I saw it, I'd had
it happen before. And I
said to myself, clearly the
only thing that's going to
cause for me to hang
that long, the SQL server,
trying to find a machine
that's gone. Right. And I
went right to it and
I fixed it. Yup. But
debugging that without it, once
happening. Yeah. It was funny.
I had fixed that issue
by the way. I'm my
. But yeah, there was
a, there was another situation
where it was just having
gone through the steps several
times and being able to
replay those quickly in your
mind to realize that, okay,
I just forgot step three
in case today, because I
was having fun being interrupted
by Scott jokes and stuff,
which was fun. But, but
yeah. Being able to replay
that quickly and say, okay,
I had forgotten the step.
Let's go fix it. Yup.
And in some cases, those
just become teaching moments themselves.
Anyway, I think it's, it's,
it's okay for things to
break on stage. If you
can recover and explain and
make the breaking a learning
experience. Yep. So practice, practice
practice is the one thing
you cannot go over your
demos too much. And you
know, really you can make
mistakes speaking, but if your
demo goes poorly, then it
really, it under cuts the,
the, the, the, the essence,
everything that you're trying to
do, it gets uncomfortable very
quick for the audience. Well,
yeah. You know, unless it's
part of your shtick and
sometimes so, you know, today,
you know, and part of
my shtick is consciously making
syntax errors. And this is
actually a new thing I've
been doing lately that, that
a lot of people have
never, they know that I'm
doing is I'll make mistakes,
put a, you know, put
a curly brace somewhere and
put it in, put a
semicolon somewhere else. And then
they'll start taking yell out,
Hey, no, no, you got
to do this. It's not
going to compile or whatever,
but that shows that they're
paying attention and they're engaged
more in there. They're stumped
Scott. So we had a
couple of, of bugs and
some goofy things that we
were doing today that were
on purpose, but it meant
it was after lunch and
it was fun and it
made for a more engaged
audience. So then they get
to see you goof up
and then they're involved in
the fixing. But I dunno
if I would recommend that
for a beginner. Cause it's
pretty. Yeah. It's tough. It's
tough. And it's tough to,
to, to make it look
honest that you meant to
do. Yeah. Well then if
you do it long enough,
the real, then you can
get away with a little
times. Cause an actual mistake
you can say isn't he
just recovered from, but yeah.
I usually use throw two
or three mistakes in every
talk just to make sure
that they're paying attention and
just cause it's fun. So
yeah, practice a lot. And
then there's all the basic
stuff that people forget that
just kills me. You know,
I can't see your fonts.
They're too small. The F
you know, you're trying to
fit too much stuff in
a, in a, in a
PowerPoint. PowerPoint is not a
word document. And if you
say things like, well, you
won't be able to see
this, or you can't see,
but it says, then you
zoom in, fix it. Also
the, the number one mistake
is slides as crutch, right?
Don't read me your slides.
I can read faster than
you can speak, period. So
if there's some quote or
some, you know, amazing quote
by JFK that you want
them to read, just shut
up and let them read.
Which brings me to the
kind of the final really
good tip that I learned
about is that silence is
really important. And it's better
for you to be quiet
than say, because even what
you will perceive as being
for an incredibly long amount
of silence, you know, three
seconds, two seconds, they won't
notice. It sounds like a
lot of time in your
head when you cause everyone's
staring at you. But if
you consciously replace the ums
that you're going to say
with silence. Yep. It'll sound
really like that. It goes
back to that pause. Think
about the next thing you're
going to say and be
intentional about it. So It
gets everything right. Intentionality. Yep.
Which is more of a
skill than, than anything. I
mean, you have to be
conscious and never have I
molt, and I'm not a
good multitasker, but never have
my multitask. Then when I'm
presenting, because you're, you have
words coming out of your
mouth at the same exact
time as your fingers are
typing at the same exact
time as you're thinking of
what to do next. I
mean, it's, it's a special
kind of multitasking, but it
is the only true multitasking
that I think I'm able
to do anymore. Yeah. Let's
do that. Yeah. It takes
a lot of practice. I
mean, not just, not just
practicing demos, but just doing
a lot of speaking. And
we talked about this because
you know, I've been at
Microsoft, I'm doing more management
than out speaking lately. And
just getting back out there
in front of an audience
can be rough at first.
And so, you know, it
was, it was much easier
when I was out working
for Microsoft in the field
presenting every week or even
twice a week to keep
that skill up. But you
know, it's one of those
things that the more you
practice, the more often you
do it, the better you
get at it. Well, that's
a good point. Let's talk
about this. Or the last
talk I did before this
talk was my PDC presentation,
which I thought, and this
is just me personally, when
I came away from it,
like it was one of
the best talks I've ever.
Yeah. I thought the same
thing, actually. I thought that's
one of the best presentations
I've seen Scott give. Yeah.
Nothing about anyone else's presentations,
but just my own. That
was my, my personal best.
I think it was like
nine out of 10 that
it just, everything worked. And
it was one of those
things where everything just came
together. The demos worked and
the timing works and I
stuck the landing and it
was live and it was
streaming and there's all, it
was just great. And I
haven't talked since then. So
that's October, November, December, January.
So what was I saying
to you on the, on
the, as we were coming
over here, We were nervous
that you could live up
to your last presentation. I
was a mess from the
moment I got off the
plane, the last two days,
hanging out with you, right.
Even walking up, we've been
wandering the streets of Amsterdam,
talking about everything. And then
always coming back to the,
this is going to be
awful. Nervous. Yeah. We're totally
screwed. You were pretty nervous
before the PDC session too,
though. I remember that talking
to you and remember I
was nervous about timings and
nervous about I think. And
that's another thing that I
think people have a impression
that Scott Hanselman doesn't get
nervous before he goes on
stage. James Senior knows that
I am a nervous wreck.
Right. I am a 14
year old girl for like
two days before these things.
It is just awful. Yep.
And then the second you
get on stage, you just
forget that stuff. The adrenaline
rush. Take the energy. Yeah,
Totally. Yeah. So the argument
that nobody yet, you don't
get nervous. I mean, you
get, it's a different kind
of nervous. It's not like
butterflies nervous about the basic
execution. I know I can
speak on stage. I just
don't know what's going to
come out of my head
and if I'm going to
be able to be, and
then I've also got the
additional problem of diabetes. So
you probably noticed towards the
end of the day to
day, I was checking my
blood sugar while speaking, typing,
I was going to tell
you four times, If you
catch me at the right
moment, like the sight of
blood will turn me away.
Oh, I didn't know. You
had all of a sudden
right in front of me.
Cause you were trying to
hide it behind a laptop,
prick your finger and tested
your blood sugar. And I
was like, okay. I'm okay.
I didn't know you had
that. Yeah. Some people will
just go out. Yeah. I
don't know why It's a
thing people have, but yeah.
So sometimes people will see
me checking what they think
is my pager. You know,
it's my insulin pump. And
I actually find a portion
of the talk where I
don't have to hit the
keyboard for a while. And
I'll literally just keep talking
without missing a beat while
checking my blood sugar and
then, you know, drinking an
orange juice or whatever to
keep from falling over. They
miss a beat. Yeah. Prick
finger, put it onto those
strip and then check the
number and then you're back
then. Yeah. I always, I
always compare speaking under pressure
like this to like, cause
I'm all about analogies, right?
And I throw analogies at
the wall like spaghetti and
hoping that some of them
will stick. And I, you
know, but one of the
one is that there is
an analogy, right? There is
it's speaking. LA is like,
when you're a little kid
like eight or nine or
10 and you're running downhill
as fast as you can
downhill. And you're going so
fast, faster than your feet
have ever gone because you're
running downhill. But if you
think about your feet for
a second, you're going to
miss a step and you're
going to just spill. Right.
So you have to think
about not thinking about your
feet so that you don't
fall, right? So you like,
you need the concentrate, but
it's the concept. It's like
a Zen thing it's concentrating
on. Not concentrating. You need
to be absolutely intentional and
think about every single aspect
of what you're doing from
your breathing to your, how
wet your mouth is to
where you, you know, if
you got burgers in your
nose and what are your
demos are doing all that
without overthinking it. Because if
you do, you're going to
think about your feet and
totally fall over. So that's
the Zen place you have
to get to think about
everything and nothing. Yeah. That's
a good point. Yeah. I've
always thought about it as
a, trying to, you know,
I'm treading water and I'm
trying to keep my head
above water. And if the
session's going well and doing
fine, keeping my head above
water, as soon as I
get below, I started to
panic. Panic sets in and
the session just, just starts
to go South. But Well,
that gets to your question.
I'm not sure. I really
answered about like when you're
down, how do you recover?
How do you recover? I
don't know, man. I mean,
you hear about the stent.
I hear about standup comedians.
They bomb bombing means that
you just did horribly. And
they bombed like night after
night after night. And I
think that you keep going
up there because you know,
one that you won't and
aye. Aye, aye, aye, aye,
aye. Tell jokes that don't
go over or I do
demos that don't work or
whatever. And you just hope
that that's not the one
that's filmed and that's not
the one that is live
streaming that's remembered. Yeah. But
as far as like tips
and tricks, there's no tricks
that I can. I mean,
we don't put in tricks
to make demos work. We
don't like cheat or, or,
you know, everything we're doing
is real know you'll hard.
You'll, hardcode the occasional XML
file, but you're not going
to cheat in any major
way. Yeah. Because that would
be neat. That wouldn't be
a demo then that would
just be watching a slide
of pictures of things happen.
But a preparation I think
is the thing I probably
spend a week on and
off getting a good hour
and a half, two hour
demo working. I know that
James senior who put together
the webcams content just spent
months. Right. Getting it perfect.
And not only did he
do that, but he also
made content that could be
given to other people to
present. Yeah. I was going
to say preparing demos for
other people to present and
trying to handle every random
thing that they might do.
Yeah. It's a, it's pretty
difficult. It's a nightmare. He's
actually come up with a
really nice format though that
I'm starting to use as
well, but he makes this
landscape page and he's got
pros on the far left
column steps in bold face
in the middle and then
a screenshot of what you
should be looking at on
the right. It's a really
great thing. He says he
actually has a service that
does that for him. So
he'll record the presentation and
he'll send it to the
service. They'll write everything up
that he wrote that he
did. So they're basically, it's
like a code presentation transcription.
Yeah. I know. It's just
a consulting company that we
use. Cause I want to
have them do that with
my talks. It's great. That's
great. Yeah. I didn't even
know that that existed. They
build our demos, you know,
we come up with kind
of conceptualize it and then
they'll go and do the
coding for us and they'll
break it down and script
it. And for the talking
points rather than us going
and typing them in for
them, we'll just go through
the demo, say what we
want to say. So it's
more natural. And then they'll
record that into the pros.
See, I've never, you know,
10 years of doing this.
I've never done that. I
never thought about that. I
break things down like, like
a short story. I think
about what am I trying
to accomplish in the next
hour? I break it up
in 10 minute chunks and
I have a peak or
kind of a crescendo somewhere
in the middle or three
quarters of the way through.
And I think about just
like classic eighth grade English,
here's my thesis. Say what
I'm going to say, say
it. What did I just
say? I was just going
to do that and repeat.
But yeah, if I started
doing presentations for other people
that I would give, I
would, I would definitely want
to use a transcription service.
How do people break into
it and move into the
big stuff, nail it down
at the local code camps
in the local things, the
a hundred person events and
also speak anywhere. One of
the things that's actually funny
is that people don't realize
that there's other places to
speak and other opportunities that,
that, for example, like with
me, they won't see me
because I'm speaking at events
that they wouldn't go to.
Like next month we've got
MVP summit, but I'm going
to actually run down to
LA and speak at a
interior decorators, bloggers summit, and
I'm doing it for free,
but I want the practice.
Right. And it's this kind
of other expertise that you
have, which is having a
great blog, right? So we
can take that to anywhere.
And I do talk. So
I'm doing a talk at
Intel to their agile conference
and you know, don't doing
nothing non-Microsoft stuff, right? There's
stuff on the side, I'm
going to talk about, you
know, being effective versus being
efficient in information overload. And
I'll do that. And like
this thing that this interior
decorators thing they heard, they
heard, I gave a good
talk at this, this conference
for called blogging while Brown
it's for bloggers of color.
And they had someone saw
me there and they said,
Oh, you should come to
BlogWorld. And I went to
blog world and these fit
in with my kind of
my existing job. And it
gives me an opportunity to
practice. So for example, they're
going to pay, they don't
pay these little gigs. They'll
pay for the flight to
fly me to LA that
morning practice by giving a
talk to these interior decorators
and I'll come up to
Seattle and then I'll give
the MPB temp, MVP summit.
And I'll be a warmed
up as it were. That's
an example. I speak at
like Portland, community college or
local local colleges, local user
groups that you know that
I'm not, I'm not blogging
about that. I'm off at
such and such. I'd spoken.
I'm in Eugene, Oregon, a
little, little town in Oregon.
It's like a three hour
drive. They invited me down.
They said they would give
me tacos. So they bought
me tacos and I drove
down and I gave a
talk, but that's how you
kind of keep that's one
of the secrets. Isn't it
we'll do anything for tacos.
That is a secret. But
I think the actual secret
is though that for every
big talk, I guess what
I'm saying is you can't
be expected to not speak
for three months and then
go to a code camp
and be awesome and nail
it. Right. You have to
be doing this, like, think
about it in the terms
of the I'm the comedian,
you gotta do the small
clubs. You gotta do it
all the time. And there's
enough stuff going on out
there. Like everyone's like, why
are you speaking at an
interior decorators conference? Well, because
it's sharpen the saw, where
else am I going to
talk? Whether it's a user
group or MVP summit or
any opportunity I've spoken at
small financial services companies on
how to use Twitter and
things like that, anywhere that
you can talk to a
different kind of person. I've
talked to like old people
in suits where I had
to wear a suit and
I've talked to, you know,
whatever, right? Any opportunity to
speak. When you have an
arsenal of things that you
pull out and use onstage,
like your analogies and other
stories that you tell, and
those stories often then unique
ones, the new ones come
up because you put yourself
in a different situation. Right.
And then you can, you've
told it, it worked and
you hold on to put
it in. Yeah. You put
it in the safer isn't
later. Absolutely. Well, I think
that's it really? I mean,
it's a sharpen. The saw
practice as much as you
can talk to anybody, whenever
you can take any opportunity
to talk to 10 people
and have a luncheon talk
to a thousand people at
a conference, when you do
it, record yourself. When you
present, be prepared, be prepared
about what you're going to
say, don't memorize it, but
know your stuff backwards and
forwards. Do your demos the
least 10 times I do
most of my 20 or
more. Right. You went through
the demos over and over
and over and over again
and still thinks, went wrong.
But the things that went
wrong we'd seen before and
we knew what to do
about it and then wake
up the next morning and
do it all again. Yep.
Cool. Well, I'm going to
pass out now. Okay, great.
Cool. You're going to pass
out too. I think so.
Alright. It's bedtime out here
in the Netherlands. We will
see you again next week.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes.